So now let's understand the difference
between in a cross account type of use case
accessing a resource
Thanks to resource-based policy
or a cross account IAM role.
So the first option is to attach a resource-based policy
to a specific resource, for example
an S3 bucket policy and allow another account to access it.
Or the second option is to use a role as a proxy for this.
What do I mean?
Well, we can have a user in account A,
and we create a role in account B
that allows us to access the Amazon S3 bucket
in account B.
The other option is to actually attach an S3 bucket policy
of the Amazon S3 bucket in account B
To allow the user in account A to access it.
So they look similar, but there are a few differences.
The first one is that when you assume a role
would it be from a user application or service.
Any type of original permissions are going to be given up
and we're going to take only the permission
assigned to the role.
When you're using a resource-based policy
the principle doesn't have to
give up his permissions
because just the resource
policy will allow the user to do a specific action.
So an example of where this becomes very important.
For example, you have a user in account A
and you need to do at the same time a scan
of a DynamoDB table in the same account A
and then send the output to an industry bucket in account B.
In this case, resource-based policy will make
your life a little bit easier.
So resource-based policies are supported
by so many resources on AWS.
You have S3 buckets, SNS topics, SQS queues
extra, extra, extra.
So to summarize, IAM roles are going to be very helpful
to give temporary permissions for a specific task
and they will allow a user and application
to perform many actions in a different account
than the one you have
When you are assuming an IAM role,
The permissions will expire over time.
Resource-based policy on the other end are used to
control access to specific resources
from a resource centric point of view.
So the resource controls who can access it.
This also allows cross account access very easily
and it's a permanent can authorization
as long as it's still in the resource-based policy.
So if you take an example of Amazon Event Bridge
for example, when the rule runs, it needs permission
on the targets.
So there is some targets that allow resource-based policies
such as Lambda functions, SNS topics, SQS queues
CloudWatch Logs, API Gateway.
So, in that case we have an Eve bridge rule
and the Lambda will have, for example
a resource-based policy that allows Eve Bridge to invoke it.
That's one way of doing things.
The other way that Eve Bridge can work is that
the IAM role may be needed.
For example, if the target is a Kinesis data stream
or systems manager run command or an ECS task,
in that case
the event bridge rule is going to assume an IAM role to
make that API call onto the target service.
On top of it, you can use the principle org ID condition
in your resource policies to restrict access to accounts
that are all members of the same organization.
So it's very simple On your S3 bucket
you just create and allow, put object and get
object where the principle org ID is equals to
the Org ID You have
and any member accounts can access your S3 buckets
but user outside your organizations
or accounts outside your organizations cannot.
So it's a very common way of using resource policies.
So another example of resource policies is, for example
for cross account access.
Here we have two accounts,
one SQS queue and an EC2 instance.
And the EC2 instance is polling for messages.
And so here we have an SQS queue access policy
that is going to allow
all of the accounts so 1 1 1
2 2 2,
3 3 3
to do SQS receive message on the queue.
So this is necessary.
And then the EC2 instance, of course
itself must have enough permissions to also do
the message polling on account A.
An another example is to publish S3 event notifications
to an SQS queue.
So here we upload an object into the
S3 bucket and the message is sent into the SQS queue.
In that case, again, we can do a queue access policy
that allows the source ARN to be a bucket.
So here we're using a source ARN
because it is a service to service type of communication.
Then we can have string equal source account to
identify the bucket owner account id
and then we have the action SQS send message as authorized.
So hopefully that makes sense.
You start seeing the difference
between resource-based policies
and IAM roles and several examples of
how it works within the same accounts or cross accounts.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.